---
title: Who am I? Past learnings and experience
date: 2023-02-01 12:00:00 -500
categories: [professional]
tags: [c, c#, rust, math, opengl, python, flutter, learning, experience]
---

Hello world! My name is Cássio Ferreira Milc(zareck)! Im a backend software developer. Im 18 years old at the time im writing this. I decided to create this blog to expose my knowledge and experiences, state about current works and what I'm learning right know aswell some histories. Also maybe give poor opinions about random subjects especially tech-related.

I earned a PC very early with maybe the age of 6-7. But my journey with computers maybe started at 11 when I made a computer maintenance course. But with programming and with CS itself I would say with 14 when I started with html then I move to python. I always liked math. At primary school I won a honor mention in a math olympiad.

As I said Python was my first language where I really had make a lot of things. I've learned about OOP, used frameworks like pygame to develop games, kivy to develop apps for mobile. I really liked games at this epoch.
I also learn how to use Git.

When I was 15 years old I developed a game from scratch, I've tried to make it using LibGDX and Kotlin but I ended up using C#. This game had more than 1000 lines of code and a really messful codebase Im not gonna lie. But it was a beginnig. I deployed it on Play Store but unfortunately its not more there as I lost the backup and I couldnt have the last version of it. It was called Magic Pirate.

I liked math and graphics so at 16 my time was spending doing low-level graphics with C and OpenGL, learning linear algebra to do matrix operations. I could make a sphere with diffuse lights rotating. It worked and displayed some VGA texts. Then I switched to Rust because someway low-level, fast and compiled languages was an addiction for me. At this epoch I even made a bootloader from scratch following a book I dont remember the name using assembly because why not I've learn a lot of fundamental things about PC memory like stack, heap, pointers, allocation...

But I saw early I wouldnt get a job in Rust. It wasn't so liked by companies, then I started to do Flutter development (yes, I never liked to be a frontend developer). I made some simple apps but it was enough. I really was not liking this life! So I found Go lang, the language of backend developers! Simple, compiled, fast, and used in big techs.
At this time I was also pushing myself to use Arch Linux. It was painfull at the begining but my laptop was needing it as it barely had 4gb of RAM. I learn about grep, pipe, echo, std redirection, ps, systemd...
and also begin to learn about network and sockets and I was loving it! I've made few programs in C that could communicate thorough sockets. 

I started learning Go lang and made its Tour at middle of 2021. Then I also migrate to Node and made some small application using Express with MySQL and a bit of unit tests using Jest because I was scared of people saying it was impossible to get your first job with Go. But I've come back very early again and at 2022 I was having some fun with Fiber.

This is who I am. Since 14 I'm a self-taught. I'm still a beginner that has a lot of things to learn in this software world. 

- Finished an english course
- Bootcamps with kotlin + how the runtime of it works
- C# game with unity, project that last 3 months with more than 1000 lines of code. Json parse to save the game - Git for code versioning. 
2021 >
Math
- Combination, permutation, arrangement
- Basics algebra
- A bit about linear algebra: vector, sin and cos and
matrix transformation to make games using OpenGL
Programming
- Resolved more than 100 python exercises
- Created small games and apps using python and kivy. Using
buildozer to build on android
- Learned about OpenGL ES, in books, youtube and artilces, he used it after learned LibGDX in java
- Low level learning: heap, memory, stack
- C and rust (a bit of course) - Linux learnings: why so much distro and whats its purposes - Installed arch linux from scratch and used it for a months - Handling x86 assembly and created a bootloader (todo: book)
Things that happened:

Como eu citei usava bastante idioumous, era uma época boa, eu me sentava na cadeira da mesa da cozinha e ficava no aplicativo deles estudando, aprendi pra cacete com o bagulho

Deletei uma playlist de música muito foda no final de 2021 acho mas tinha umas música desde 2019 tipo 1kilo, matue, e essas coisas tou escrevendo isso em 2023 mas irmão.

Eu programava opengl no final de 2020, muito boa a sensação de chegar no quarto no meio da pandemia, sabendo que não tinha nada no dia seguinte e ficar estudando opengl e cálculos

### 2022
 Programming:
- Developed an node project with express and mysql that makes use of unit tests with jest
- Used jest to make tests
- What is integration tests and how to make unit test (in node)
- Knowledge about counternization
- Completed Go tour
- Go with postgres using docker as a container service
- More understanding of git: remote branches, fetch and merge
GNU Ecosystem:
- Sockets in C and how they work
- Deep knowledge at linux, debian an its tools
- Fedora migration for stability
- Use of GNU tools:
# 2023
Improved network understanding, public key pair, setup openvpn, a bit about cryptography
